# Leancrypto Rust Binding

The leancrypto Rust binings offer a native Rust API. The the offered interfaces follow the same concepts as provided with the general C API. Nonetheless, not all C APIs are yet provided via the Rust bindings which is purely due to lack of time. Adding the missing interfaces, however, is straight forward. If a Rust API binding is missing, either please open an issue at Github or provide a patch.

## Compile example code

1. Build leancrypto with meson directory `build` and install header files to `/usr/local/include` (if it is a different target, update build.rs)

2. Build test code: `cargo build --release`

3. Execute test code: `cargo test --release`

4. Build application `example/lc_hash_sha3_512.rs`: `cargo run --example lc_hash_sha3_512`

## Develop your own code

Use the sample applications in `examples/` as well as test code in `tests/` as
starting point.

The API offered by the Rust bindings is very closely following the general C API. The key differences are:

* Each API category is wrapped into Rust structs with associated implementation.

* The general approach is that caller-data must be imported into the struct with different load functions before they can be operated on.

* Data generated by leancrypto is stored in the struct and can be obtained with different getter functions.

The caller interacts with the API using simple `u8` buffers.

## Auxiliary Guidance

An excellent introduction into the RUST code development with linkage to a
C library is given by [Quin Darcy](https://github.com/Quin-Darcy/rust-c-ffi-guide).
